Program was developed in Keil MicroVision. Setting up the starter files was very fun.

Collaborators: [@jqazi05](https://github.com/jqazi05)

This paper explores the design, implementation, and testing of an embedded motion tracking system configured to operate as a Universal Serial Bus (USB) Human Interface Device (HID) mouse. The system uses the Texas Instruments Tiva C Series EK-TM4C123GXL to process the physical inputs and transmit them to the USB Host in real time. Due to a supply constraint, the original sensor, the PMW3389 laser motion sensor, was not used and was successfully replaced with the LIS3DH 3-axis accelerometer. This effectively turned the mouse into an air mouse, which is capable of two-dimensional cursor movements on a monitor by tilting the sensor on the X- and Y-axis. The project uses a combination of Universal Asynchronous Receiver-Transmitter (UART), Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI), and USB to make this possible. The device achieved an overall latency of 1.14 milliseconds for a combination click and motion action, which is under the 5 ms and 12 ms thresholds, respectively. Additionally, it has a 100% click reliability without double-detection. The designers also reflect upon the effects of the engineering design process and the usage of artificial intelligence (AI) throughout the project.  Ultimately, this project successfully demonstrated the integration of the previously mentioned serial communication protocols, software architecture application, and ECE 473 coursework integration to create a functional, high-speed device.

For the full report is located on my [Linkedin.](https://www.linkedin.com/in/cadendo/overlay/Project/2027133325/treasury/?profileId=ACoAAEcnO2sB-eHS2fDpXoIFiYhYm3Lo2qur-Wc)
